So, we're going to go in here,
into our configuration --- software configuration and our RDS_CONNECTION_URL,
and we're going to create a Postgres connection string just
like we have been for local development,
only this the one that we're going to use in production.
Our username is going to be awsuser, awspassword,
and that's going to be at the URL for that RDS instance that we just saw,
and then /todos is going to be the name of the database.
We'll hit Apply.
And now we should have the necessary environment
configuration to actually get this bad boy going.
So once this environment update is complete,
we're going to do the penultimate step, which is an eb deploy.
So be ready to do that here in a just a minute.
So with the environment updating, we can't actually kick off a deploy.
And we can see that right now the application has not
been successfully deployed yet,
so we can't see anything on our Elastic Beanstalk instance.
A couple of questions are coming in here.
Where's the best and safest place to have Elastic Beanstalk pull
in the AWS access key and secret access key?
When you go through the eb init process,
it's going to actually save your access key and secret in a
DOT file like in your home directory,
and that's generally speaking where I --- it's where like everybody who
deploys to Elastic Beanstalk on our team keeps it,
in like a.
aws directory essentially in your home directory, so that's where that goes.
And the next question,
is it safe to put the db username and password in an EC2
environment variable for production?
If you've configured your RDS instance to not accept
traffic from the outside as we have,
like it's not possible to connect to the database outside of the current VPC.
In which case it's not the end of the world to have the
connection string as an environment variable,
but what we typically do is --- like there's a way to
store secure credentials in a S3 bucket and then load
them into the system environment.
So rather than like managing it through the administrative interface directly,
you could pull in credential information from a S3 bucket so that it's
not accessible directly through the console interface.
So there's different ways to approach that.
This is probably --- again, because it's not publicly accessible,
it's not the end of the world,
but probably the best place to do it is in a S3 bucket like in
an XML or JSON file or something like that.
Then it will read those in from your application.
Alright, so now our environment is actually in a decent state,
so now we've actually npm install.
I think we still need to do grunt collect_static to get everything ready to go.
Now we can do an eb deploy,
and that's going to package up all of the application
logic in our directory to a zip file.
It's going to create a new application version,
which we can see through the administrative interface,
and ultimately it's going to deploy that new version of
the application to our instances.
And what we saw before --- what they're going to do once the application
version has been deployed is run these commands that we set up.
So we have a npm prestart command,
which is going to run our migrations against the database.
So if there's any available migrations to run,
those will get run prior to the application being deployed.
And then we have a start command which will run our server process and start
listening for inbound connections on the configured HTTP port.
So, if all goes according to plan,
we should have a new version to look at here in a few minutes.
Alright, so I'm afraid to look, but that looks like --- suspiciously like a todo,
and it seems like we are successfully running an
application in production on Elastic Beanstalk.
Did you get up there and add some?
Good for you.
Good looking out.
So now we have our RDS instance connected to all of our EC2
instances in the same security group.
We have an Elastic Load Balancer, which is what this URL is pointing to,
is accepting traffic from the outside world,
and it is routing it to all the instances in our
Elastic Beanstalk configuration,
and our Elastic Beanstalk again is talking back and forth with a RDS database.
So, that's all it takes to deploy an application on Elastic Beanstalk,
but the good part is once you get all of this set up,
really all you're going to be doing going forward is eb deploy.
Like you're going to be zipping up your application into an archive,
you're going to be deploying a new version,
the new version will get installed on all your instances,
and you can sort of go about your business.
There are ways to do a lot of the things that we did manually via API,
but I wanted to go through kind of all the different steps so you could
understand hopefully a little better what it's going to take to actually get
a new environment provisioned on Elastic Beanstalk.
Phil asks,
do you recommend having a staging environment before
going to a production environment on AWS?
Absolutely!
You definitely want to do that.
So right now we only have one environment that we can push to,
but it's possible to deploy to multiple environments.
So it's definitely good to verify your changes in a stage environment as
we definitely always do prior going to production.
The other thing that's actually kind of nifty about Elastic
Beanstalk is you have the ability to blue-green deploys.
So you can deploy your application code to an environment,
which is essentially the standby environment,
you can validate that everything is good to go in that environment,
and then in the administrative interface or via API you can
actually change this public-facing URL.
You can swap URLs with another environment.
So you can with 0 downtime just convert to another
environment that's already been deployed and verified to
work like directly through the interface,
which is actually rad.
We didn't actually take advantage of that because we don't have
access to the console because when you work in a large
organization things can be pretty locked down.
But it's something that we'd like to explore doing because it's
definitely something that can be done via API as well.
Going into the dashboard here,
let me just point out a few bits in the administrative interface
for Elastic Beanstalk that might be useful.
In the --- with all of your applications,
there's multiple potential versions of the application that could be deployed.
So, if I'm at this level looking at my todomvc-plusplus application,
I can see all the environments that are running this application,
and I can also say see all the application versions.
So this is the current version of the application that's deployed to production,
so you can see it's currently deployed to this environment.
And I can deploy past versions of the application.
This is how you would do a rollback like if
something --- if some stuff hit the fan.
You could roll back to a previous deployed version of the application.
So there are a few things you can do here.
In the environment configuration,
there's also a few bits that are worth calling out.
The log interface,
you can actually view the last 100 lines of the logs
directly within the administrative interface,
but we also have this eb logs, oops,
eb logs command that we can run from the command line interface,
which will give us the last 100 lines of a couple of different logs.
It'll give us the output from our Node.
js application,
and it'll also give us like the logs from the deployment
commands that are happening on our EC2 instances.
So here we have --- we can see the output of our var migrations,
and then we start to see the morgan logging that you guys were nice
enough add into our application earlier this morning.
So you can retrieve the logs in that way.
The other bits worth showing off in the Scaling configuration,
this is where you can start to toy with the settings for your application.
We can sort of mandate that there's never going to be
fewer than two instances --- two EC2 instances running the
application at any given time.
We can put an upper bound on the number of
instances that can be running the app.
We can configure different availability zones.
And we can also configure different scaling triggers.
So we can say that when the network bandwidth reaches a certain level,
that is the trigger point at which we can spin up another instance.
So there's a lot of capability that we have there.
And then on the instances themselves,
this is where you can actually configure the type of AWS or type
of EC2 instance that will be running your code.
The default is a t2.
micro, which is pretty small.
It has like one virtual core in like 513 MGs of memory,
I think, and it kind of goes up from there.
So you can configure the actual machines that are running your
application based on your performance requirements.
And we've already kind of looked into the Software Configuration,
which is another bit.
We'll also look at some of the health check features that
are present here tomorrow when we talk about like monitoring
this application environment.
There are a few other things that you can mess with.
For updates and deployments, by default a third of your fleet of instances,
whatever that happens to be, if it's just three,
it'll be just one of them, but essentially like when you're doing a deployment,
that's how many of those instances will be taken out of the load
balancer to perform your application update at a time.
And once that one instance has been updated,
it's going to be put back in the load balancer,
and the other instances will be taken out,
and that instance will start accepting the traffic from the load balancer.
And you can configure like how much of your fleet you want to take out
and update and put back into the load balancer there.
Alright, so that was a tremendous pile of stuff to do,
but for anyone who wants to attempt it, I will take you through the steps.
The documentation or the place to start that I put in
the chat was starting with the EB CLI, then,
again, I think actually bringing up the 10,
000 foot view of this process here.
Within a region, you'll create a user, you'll download those user's credentials,
you're going to create an Elastic Beanstalk environment from the command line,
you'll create an RDS instance through the administrative interface,
and you'll configure a security group to allow incoming connections.
So there are a few pieces of that process that are a little bit putzy,
so I'm happy to help you through any of those individual pieces
if you'd like to give it a shot yourself.
But again, I think the benefit here is that this is being recorded,
and all of you can watch that ordeal again at another time when you're
actually going through this and clicking the button.
So there are definitely a lot of pieces to set up,
but hopefully that gives you a sense of like what the moving parts are during the process.